README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# AdvGrads

</div>

## 🌐 About
AdvGrads is an all-in-one tool for comprehensive experimentation with adversarial attacks on image recognition. This provides an environment used for research purposes to validate the performance of attack and defense methods in adversarial attacks.

This repository is still under development. For more information, please contact with me (m.yuito3@gmail.com).

## 🔍 Features
AdvGrads is developed on `PyTorch`.

### 💥 Attacks
Currently supported attack methods are as follows:

| Method              | Type                | References          |
| :------------------ | :------------------ | :------------------ |
| FGSM                | White-box           | 📃[Explaining and Harnessing Adversarial Examples](https://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6572) |
| I-FGSM (BIM)        | White-box           | 📃[Adversarial examples in the physical world](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.02533) |
| MI-FGSM (MIM)       | White-box           | 📃[Boosting Adversarial Attacks with Momentum](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.06081) |
| Square attack       | Black-box           | 📃[Square Attack: a query-efficient black-box adversarial attack via random search](https://arxiv.org/abs/1912.00049) |

### 💠 Defenses
Currently supported defense methods including adversarially trained models are as follows:

| Method              | Type                | References          |
| :------------------ | :------------------ | :------------------ |
| TRADES              | Adv. training       | 📃[Theoretically Principled Trade-off between Robustness and Accuracy](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.08573) |

### 🧩 Others
And also, some naturally trained models are supported.

| Source              | Datasets            | References          |
| :------------------ | :------------------ | :------------------ |
| pytorch-playground  | MNIST, CIFAR-10     | 🌐[pytorch-playground](https://github.com/aaron-xichen/pytorch-playground) |

## 💻 Installation

### Create environment
AdvGrads requires `Python >= 3.9`. An example of creating an environment using Python venv:
```bash
py -3.9 -m venv [ENV_NAME]
```

### Dependencies
After creating and activating your virtual environment, you can install necessary libraries via the requirements.txt.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Installing AdvGrads
Install AdvGrads in editable mode from source code:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/myuito3/AdvGrads.git
python -m pip install -e .
```

## 🚀 Usage
The attack configs are managed by a YAML file, which can be used as input to call `attack.py` to execute the attack.

```bash
python advgrads_cli/attack.py --load_config configs/mnist.yaml
```

Commit message:

Add description format of config files

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# AdvGrads

</div>

## 🌐 About
AdvGrads is an all-in-one tool for comprehensive experimentation with adversarial attacks on image recognition. This repository provides an environment used for research purposes to validate the performance of attack and defense methods in adversarial attacks.

This repository is still under development. For more information, please contact with me (m.yuito3@gmail.com).

## 🔍 Features
AdvGrads is developed on `PyTorch`.

### 💥 Attacks
Currently supported attack methods are as follows:

| Method              | Type                | References          |
| :------------------ | :------------------ | :------------------ |
| FGSM                | White-box           | 📃[Explaining and Harnessing Adversarial Examples](https://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6572) |
| I-FGSM (BIM)        | White-box           | 📃[Adversarial examples in the physical world](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.02533) |
| MI-FGSM (MIM)       | White-box           | 📃[Boosting Adversarial Attacks with Momentum](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.06081) |
| Square attack       | Black-box           | 📃[Square Attack: a query-efficient black-box adversarial attack via random search](https://arxiv.org/abs/1912.00049) |

### 💠 Defenses
Currently supported defense methods including adversarially trained models are as follows:

| Method              | Type                | References          |
| :------------------ | :------------------ | :------------------ |
| TRADES              | Adv. training       | 📃[Theoretically Principled Trade-off between Robustness and Accuracy](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.08573) |

### 🧩 Others
And also, some naturally trained models are supported.

| Source              | Datasets            | References          |
| :------------------ | :------------------ | :------------------ |
| pytorch-playground  | MNIST, CIFAR-10     | 🌐[pytorch-playground](https://github.com/aaron-xichen/pytorch-playground) |

## 💻 Installation

### Create environment
AdvGrads requires `Python >= 3.9`. An example of creating an environment using Python venv:
```bash
py -3.9 -m venv [ENV_NAME]
```

### Dependencies
After creating and activating your virtual environment, you can install necessary libraries via the requirements.txt.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Installing AdvGrads
Install AdvGrads in editable mode from source code:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/myuito3/AdvGrads.git
python -m pip install -e .
```

## 🚀 Usage
You can execute the attack immediately using the config files provided in this repository.

```bash
python advgrads_cli/attack.py --load_config configs/mnist.yaml
```

### ⚙ Description format of config files
The attack configs are managed by a YAML file. The main fields and variables are described below.

- `data`: _(str)_ Specify a dataset for which adversarial examples are to be generated.
- `model` and `checkpoint_path`: _(str)_ Select a model to be attacked and specify checkpoint file to be loaded to the model. See [here](https://github.com/myuito3/AdvGrads/blob/main/advgrads/models/__init__.py) for currently supported models.
- `attacks`: _(list)_ This field allows you to specify attack methods that you wish to execute in a list format. You can set values including hyperparameters defined for each method. The parameters that can be specified for all methods are as follows:
  - `method`: _(str)_ Attack method. See [here](https://github.com/myuito3/AdvGrads/blob/main/advgrads/adversarial/__init__.py) for currently supported attack methods.
  - `norm`: _(str)_ Norm for adversarial perturbations.
  - `eps`: _(float)_ Maximum norm constraint.
  - `max_iters`: _(int)_ Maximum number of iterations used in iterative methods.
  - `targeted`: _(bool)_ Whether or not to perform targeted attacks which aim to misclassify an adversarial example into a particular class.
